hello everyone today I'm going to show
you PhoneGap in html5 and JavaScript
framework that lets you build
cross-platform phone applications really
easily first I'm going to show creating
a simple app in Visual Studio 2010 for
Windows Phone the app will display a
picture the user selects and their
current GPS coordinates then I'll use
the same code in Eclipse to build an
Android version first I need to install
the PhoneGap template I've already
downloaded PhoneGap so I just need to
copy the app gap starter zip into the
visual studio project templates folder
alright so now I can go ahead and start
up Visual Studio and from the menu on
the Left I'm gonna select new project
and then in the templates list I'm going
to select gap app starter I'll go ahead
and name this project PhoneGap photo and
when I click OK the project will be
created so the template has given us an
index.html file and this is where most
of the UI is going to live I'm going to
go ahead and add a couple buttons here
one to let the user select a photo from
their photo library and another one to
let them take a picture now I'm just
gonna add a placeholder for the image
they selected and a placeholder for
their current latitude and longitude and
here's what that looks like running in
the emulator went ahead and did some CSS
work to get the layout right and now I'm
going to add a main J's file that will
control the functionality for this app
I'm going to set some variables in the
on device ready event that fires when
the device is loaded up and now I'm
gonna add the functionality to let the
user select a picture or take one you'll
notice I'm setting the destination type
as file URI and that is so that it's
really simple to set the source for that
image tag I created in the HTML file
alright so now I'm adding the code to
read the latitude and longitude you
notice it only takes a few lines here to
get this done and now I'm going to set
up these two buttons to call the
function we had in JavaScript and then
add a reference to that main j/s file so
here's our app running in the emulator
I'm going to go ahead and select a photo
from the photo library and there we have
it and we can see our GPS coordinates at
the bottom if I take a photo we can also
see that the photo is there now one of
the cool things about the Windows Phone
emulator is it lets you change your GPS
location on a map so I'm going to go
ahead and set myself to be in Cincinnati
and if I reload the app because we were
calling the GPS onload we can see that
the new coordinates are there all right
so now I'm going to go ahead and and run
this right on my device so I'm gonna
switch visual studio to deploy to a
Windows Phone device hit run and my
phone's plugged in so I see it load
right up and now let's take a picture
just to make sure this is working on the
phone I pointed at my whiteboard here
where you can see a drawing of a Sun hit
accept and after resuming we have the
picture inside the app now I've gone
ahead and setup Eclipse and started a
PhoneGap project for Android the cool
thing about this is now all I have to do
is grab those same HTML CSS and
JavaScript files I created for my
Windows Phone project and copy them into
the Android project and you can see
here's the index.html file and I can go
ahead and run this now and deploy it out
to an Android phone and everything works
exactly the same as it did on the
Windows Phone it's great
all right so that's going ahead and
starting up now and it's on the phone so
I will go ahead and I'll open a picture
this time so there's a picture of my
desk and you can see the GPS coordinates
all right so for more information about
PhoneGap go to PhoneGap comm slash get
started and for more information on
building cross-platform applications
with Windows Phone go to Windows Phone
interrupt bridges comm